---
layout: post
title: Palindromic Numbers
category: euler
description: Project Euler problem 4 solved in Go
code: euler4
---
The [fourth problem of Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net/problem=4) requires finding the largest palindromic product of two three-digit numbers.

I put most of my effort into determining whether an integral number is a palindrome in the `isPalindrome` function. I used a byte slice data structure to make calculations on the integral digits more straightforward. Thus, the function compares the first digit to the last digit, then the second digit to the second-last digit, *etc* using the byte slice data structure until meeting in the middle of the slice.

I learned two things:

1. Slices and arrays do not allow negative indices. Thus, you must manually "wrap around" indices to check the last elements.

    <label class="label label-danger">Bad:</label> `foo[-1]` 

    <label class="label label-success">Good:</label> `foo[len(foo)-1]`

2. The modulus function (`%`) for `x % y` does not always return a value between `0` and `y`, inclusive. For input `x=-1`, the output is -1. This caused problems when I tried to access the last element of a slice `str` using `str[-1 % len(str)]`. This returned an out-of-bounds error because the modulus returned -1. 

    <label class="label label-danger">Bad:</label> `foo[-1 % len(foo)]` 

    <label class="label label-warning">Better:</label> `foo[len(foo)-1]`


After debugging and unit testing the `isPalindrome` function fairly extensively, I chose a simplistic choice for comparing three-digit numbers by nesting loops to test every possible product.

{% highlight go %}
{% include go/src/euler4/euler4.go %}
{% endhighlight %}
